[postgresql] Added section on extensions (#1083)
Uberspace/lab: source/guide_postgresql.rst

 #bonjour_name = ''                     # defaults to the computer name
                                        # (change requires restart)

> .. code-block:: postgres
>  :emphasize-lines: 14
> 
> Edit the "Reporting and Logging" section in ``~/opt/postgresql/data/postgresql.conf`` to enable logging. Consider setting the ``log_directory`` to your preferred log file output location (here we use ``/home/<username>/logs`` where ``username`` is the name of your Uberspace).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Edit the "Reporting and Logging" section in ``~/opt/postgresql/data/postgresql.conf`` to enable logging. Consider setting the ``log_directory`` to your preferred log file output location (here we use ``/home/<username>/logs`` where ``username`` is the name of your Uberspace).
 
.. code-block:: postgres
  :emphasize-lines: 19
```

Author: fixed

 #------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 # REPORTING AND LOGGING
 #------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 # - Where to Log -

 log_destination = 'stderr'              # Valid values are combinations of
                                         # stderr, csvlog, syslog, and eventlog,
                                         # depending on platform.  csvlog
                                         # requires logging_collector to be on.

 # This is used when logging to stderr:
 logging_collector = on                  # Enable capturing of stderr and csvlog
                                         # into log files. Required to be on for
                                         # csvlogs.
                                         # (change requires restart)

 # These are only used if logging_collector is on:

>  log_directory = '/home/<username>/logs'                    # directory where log files are written,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 log_directory = '/home/<username>/logs'  # directory where log files are written,
```

Author: fixed

                                         # begin with 0 to use octal notation
 log_truncate_on_rotation = on           # If on, an existing log file with the
                                         # same name as the new log file will be
                                         # truncated rather than appended to.
                                         # But such truncation only occurs on
                                         # time-driven rotation, not on restarts
                                         # or size-driven rotation.  Default is
                                         # off, meaning append to existing files
                                         # in all cases.
 log_rotation_age = 1d                   # Automatic rotation of logfiles will
                                         # happen after that time.  0 disables.
 log_rotation_size = 0                   # Automatic rotation of logfiles will
                                         # happen after that much log output.
                                         # 0 disables.

Later you can see the socket in the filesystem by using ``ls -a ~/tmp``. It is listed as ``.s.PGSQL.5432``.

> 
> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

 * ``--template``: PostgreSQL supports standard templates to create the database structure.
 * ``database name``: And as last option the name of the database. In this example 'synapse'.

.. warning:: Please replace ``<user>`` with the user name, created earlier, and <database name> with the name of the database you want to create!

.. code-block:: console
 :emphasize-lines: 1

 [isabell@stardust ~]$ createdb --encoding=UTF8 --owner=<user> --template=template0 synapse
 [isabell@stardust ~]$

PostgreSQL Extensions
=====================

PostgreSQL `extensions <https://wiki.postgresql.org/wiki/Extensions>`_ allow to extend the functionality and user-visible functions of a database. A number of extensions for PostgreSQL are available (see `list <https://www.postgresql.org/download/products/6-postgresql-extensions/>`_), with the geospatial extension PostGIS_ being one of the most widely used ones.

Available extensions for PostgreSQL on U7 can be found in the ``/usr/pgsql-<MajorVersion>/share/extension`` directory, where ``<MajorVersion>`` refers to the PostgreSQL `Version`_ of your installation.

> .. Note:: In order to create extensions, the PostgreSQL user will need to have administrator rights. These are automatically assigned to the database owner using the ``--owner`` flag, as shown in the `Create database` section.

Author: @brutus - you were correct, I had created my db owner with the `--superuser` flag. Have corrected this in the guide and also linked to the PostgreSQL manual for more options on user and db creation.

PostGIS_ adds support for geographic objects to the database, allowing to run spatial
queries. The PostgreSQL installation on Uberspace comes with pre-compiled versions
of the PostGIS extension saving you from having to compile PostGIS and its FOSS GIS software stack dependencies (such as `GDAL <https://gdal.org>`_, `PROJ <http://proj.org>`_, `GEOS <https://trac.osgeo.org/geos/>`_ and `SFCGAL <http://www.sfcgal.org/>`_) from source.

To check whether PostGIS_ exists for the PostgreSQL version do a quick ``ls`` of the ``share``
directory. In this guide we use PostGIS_ version 3.1 with a PostgreSQL major version 12:

.. code-block:: console

 [isabell@stardust ~]$ ls -rtl /usr/pgsql-12/share/extension/postgis--3*.sql
 [isabell@stardust ~]$ -rw-r--r--. 1 root root 7.9M May 26 15:59 /usr/pgsql-12/share/extension/postgis--3.1.2.sql

Once you have convinced yourself that the right PostGIS_ extension is available, simply enter the database which you have just created (`Create Database`_) as administrator and spatially `enable the database <http://postgis.net/docs/postgis_administration.html#create_spatial_db>`_ using the PostGIS extension:

> .. warning:: Please replace ``<user>`` with the user name, created earlier, and ``<database name>`` with the name of the database you want to create!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. warning:: Please replace ``<user>`` and ``<database name>`` with the values you used earlier (when you created the database).
```

.. code-block:: console

>  [isabell@stardust ~]$ psql <database name> -U<user>

Reviewer: I thinke we should prefer _long options_:
```suggestion
[isabell@stardust ~]$ psql <database name> --username <user>
```

Author: This is probably not needed anymore as PostgreSQL automatically uses the unix login name (in our case the Uberspace account name) when no `--username` is provided. For installing extensions this means that we're directly in superuser mode and can install extensions. This is clarified in the new version of the guide.

 databaseName=# CREATE EXTENSION IF NOT EXISTS plpgsql;
 databaseName=# CREATE EXTENSION postgis;
 databaseName=# CREATE EXTENSION postgis_raster; -- OPTIONAL
 databaseName=# CREATE EXTENSION postgis_topology; -- OPTIONAL

The ``raster`` and ``topology`` functionality of PostGIS_ are optional. Test whether the extensions have been properly installed and can be found by PostgreSQL using the ``\dx`` - you should get output similar to this:

.. code-block:: console

>  [isabell@stardust ~]$ psql <database name> -U<user>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[isabell@stardust ~]$ psql <database name> --username <user>
```

Author: see above comment
